### Question 1:

For cases 3 and 4 in Section 1.5, list the possible predictor variables
that might be helpful, assuming that the relevant data are available.

Case 3: A large car fleet company asked us to help them forecast vehicle
re-sale values. They purchase new vehicles, lease them out for three
years, and then sell them. Better forecasts of vehicle sales values
would mean better control of profits; understanding what affects resale
values may allow leasing and sales policies to be developed in order to
maximise profits.

At the time, the resale values were being forecast by a group of
specialists. Unfortunately, they saw any statistical model as a threat
to their jobs, and were uncooperative in providing information.
Nevertheless, the company provided a large amount of data on previous
vehicles and their eventual resale values.

Predictor variables that might be helpful include: quality of car when
returned from lease, car features, difference in year of model from
present year, etc.

Case 4: In this project, we needed to develop a model for forecasting
weekly air passenger traffic on major domestic routes for one of
Australia’s leading airlines. The company required forecasts of
passenger numbers for each major domestic route and for each class of
passenger (economy class, business class and first class). The company
provided weekly traffic data from the previous six years.

Air passenger numbers are affected by school holidays, major sporting
events, advertising campaigns, competition behaviour, etc. School
holidays often do not coincide in different Australian cities, and
sporting events sometimes move from one city to another. During the
period of the historical data, there was a major pilots’ strike during
which there was no traffic for several months. A new cut-price airline
also launched and folded. Towards the end of the historical data, the
airline had trialled a redistribution of some economy class seats to
business class, and some business class seats to first class. After
several months, however, the seat classifications reverted to the
original distribution.

Predictor variables that might be helpful include: type of aircraft,
amenities offered on flights, time duration of flights, number of
different flights going out on same week (or average per day), etc.

### Question 2:

For case 3 in Section 1.5, describe the five steps of forecasting in the
context of this project.

See case 3 above. The five steps of forecasting are listed below:

Step 1: Problem Definition: Predict future resale values in order to
maximize profits.

Step 2: Gathering Information: Gather the vehicle resale price data from
the car fleet company as well as any quantitative data they have on cars
being sold.

Step 3: Preliminary (Exploratory) Analysis: Plot all data and look for
patterns. Do resale prices change through the year? How do different car
features affect resale values? Are the resale prices distributed
normally or are there outliers?

Step 4: Choosing and Fitting Models: Fit a forecasting model on the
resale values and several variables.

Step 5: Using and Evaluating a Forecasting Model: Evaluate the model
when new resale values are avaiable. For immediate judgments, assess the
accuracy in the forecast using other methods (to be known later).

#### Source: Hyndman, R.J., & Athanasopoulos, G. (2018) Forecasting: principles and practice, 2nd edition, OTexts: Melbourne, Australia. OTexts.com/fpp2. Accessed on August 1 2019.
